Samantha's here you have thoughts on
there's no relationships with their
customers and that's I think the longest
term problem in that business which is
you well other than you know Disney
theme parks where you actually come in
and come out the reality is like you're
living in a world now where these people
have no understanding of who the
customers not their first name not their
last name they can't figure out what
their real intentions are and I think
that's really the biggest problem so
when you compare that to Netflix or you
compare that to any other subscription
business online it's just a really
different media consumption model okay
so here's a question that we're late to
introduce is in the social capital
founder yes Bettina he was an original
member of Facebook's mid-afternoon team
I also owns a piece of the words let me
just ask you one question about this and
then I want to talk you about some other
stuff all on the issue of Disney and Fox
and all there's been questions about
concentration in these markets but one
of the argument has been actually that
we've been measuring them wrong because
we really should do is compare them to
Google and to face Paulson who have
direct access as you would say a direct
relationship with the customer whereas
most of that whereas the Disney might
not whereas an eighty or or Time Warner
actually 18t would have a direct
question
Time Warner would not how do you think
about the whole market I really think
the traditional broadcast media
businesses again with with all due
respect are the least relevant they've
ever been quite honestly so I think it
was a month ago that Google released
some data that said YouTube has 1.7
billion monthly visitors yesterday
Facebook did a reorganization and the
person that runs their core apps now
manages oversight over five billion
users or touches five billion unique
users so I think the point is that there
is just an entire order of magnitude or
two orders of magnitude increase in
distribution that's occurred and so
those are the folks that really now
control the pipes and really shape our
ideas and thoughts so are the regulars
are the regulators wrong are they
looking in the wrong direction when they
and I think part of it is that the
regulators are of a generation where
those systems used to be the things that
were relied upon and unless they get
enough data and are taught quite
see that something new has happened
they're going to reflexively go back to
what they're most comfortable with which
was a world where you know for some of
these regulators where there were
literally only three channels on this
particular deal because you've been an
Amazon fan a very very long time yeah
are you happy sad that they missed out
on this do you think that they have a
shot in India what happens so we
actually invested and I'm the chairman
of one of the largest payment processors
in India Amazon is a customer Flipkart
is actually a customer and so we've been
seeing this battle unfold on the ground
now for seven years and what I'll tell
you is from a starting standstill Amazon
and Flipkart were head-to-head and in
any given month Amazon was actually
bigger than Flipkart so the point is I
think it's a two-headed race for
domination of what is an incredibly rich
market so that's great the other thing I
ought to say is I think it's great for
Amazon that it's in the hands of Walmart
because now Walmart management has to
figure out how to keep these incredibly
talented engineers and the one thing
I'll tell you about investing in India
is that the labour market there is even
more cutthroat than the labour market in
Silicon Valley in that there's a lot of
job hopping there's tremendous amounts
of churn these talented engineers leave
companies that even faster rates and
they do the valley and so I suspect what
happens is post an acquisition when a
talented engineer has the decision to
work for Walmart or go work for Facebook
Google Amazon it's going to be very
difficult from Walmart to retain those
people and so then I suspect what
happens is they're using Walmart shares
instead of Amazon shares as yeah and
what would you rather have quite
honestly and so I just think what
happens is it's a great foothold for
Walmart it probably stopped some of the
bleeding in the short term on the equity
but the reality is I think it probably
makes it almost I've got to comple that
Amazon wins in my opinion is your view
by the way how do you think though just
about Walmart writ large given the jet
acquisition given this acquisition what
they've done on the digital side the
transformation that they're trying to
undertake here I think it's from really
courageous and I think they are the
canary in the coal mine for the rest of
the sp500 which is these stalwart legacy
companies are fundamentally on their
heels now
and what we have to figure out is how do
they adapt so you have to use your
balance sheet you have to use your stock
and you have to acquire aggressively to
try to be in these next generation wave
businesses well that's an argument for
what Walmart's just done though
yeah no no so what I'm saying is that's
why I think it stops the bleeding so
it's in my opinion are these catalysts
to see 20 30 percent you know increases
on a predictable basis in the equity I
don't think so but it is a catalyst to
say well maybe it stops going down if
you're Doug McMillon are there other
things out there perhaps either in the
US or elsewhere and would you would you
want to be investing in the US or would
you want to be doing it all
internationally no I actually think
going international that has two
advantages to large companies like
Walmart the first is that you can
actually have a different kind of
business model altogether so going into
an asset light business or vertically
integrating maybe owning a payments
business may be owning payment rails
those are better businesses with better
margins that Walmart can frankly
integrate into their business much
easier and then secondarily these
businesses are much cheaper abroad than
they are in the United States so you get
a lot of advantages by actually trying
to implement the strategy outside the US
what do you think about the fact that
Walmart decided to go in with Flipkart
with someone that was already
established as opposed to trying to go
and go at their own way build everything
from scratch on their own is this the
way to do it internationally if you're
Walmart it's the only way to do it
frankly anywhere because the again we go
back to the same existential problem
which is that if you're going to try to
innovate you need this unit of human
capital which is the engineer and those
are still quite rare they're hard to get
they're hard to find they're hard to
keep and so it's easier typically for
startups to do that because they can pay
them with equity and so it's much better
for Walmart to sit on the sidelines wait
for something to get to scale use their
balance sheet buy it and I think they've
done that masterfully so now the
question is not just for Walmart but
look at all of these other companies so
back to Disney right you know what do
you do if you're disney buying assets
from fox may have some value but maybe
what we should really be thinking about
is how do I use the balance sheet
aggressively to buy an internet business
right I want to switch topics for a
moment because you have been a big bull
on Bitcoin yeah we had some folks that
some people know on our show earlier
this week Becky was out in Omaha one of
show you what they had to save we have
to roll the tape on Bitcoin for mr.
Munger and mr. Buffett the asset itself
was creating nothing I think it's a
scumball activity I would short it if
there was an easy way to do it so there
you have it you have Bill Gates Warren
Buffett Charlie Munger one of them was
calling it a scumball activity the other
saying
Bill Gates saying he would short this
thing if you could and you're saying
they're all wrong yeah explain well look
not everybody is right all the time and
I think we have to acknowledge that we
all have biases and look I'm a disciple
of Buffett and Munger and one of the
things that they have said for years
which I believe is you define a circle
of competence and you stay within it and
I think it's been clear in his entire
investing career that technology is not
in his circle of competence and so the
only technology name that he's owned is
Apple I mean he you could claim that IBM
was a technology company
that's borderline out of that that
didn't work anyway right and in Apple I
was thinking that if he got in Bitcoin
if he eventually got in Bitcoin when he
got in events it got an Apple it had
already be at a million dollars probably
probably but samartha just going back to
this I don't think he looks at as a
technology I think he looks at it as an
asset class that he would put in the
same a similar class with gold just it's
a non-productive asset it's an asset
that is only worth more if other people
agree to pay more for it that that's the
type of issue that I also agree with I
think I think it is exactly that I think
it is a replacement to gold but again
but you like gold you're saying you like
non-productive assets I like in a
portfolio so again my portfolio is 99%
risk on 1% risk off and in that 1% risk
off bucket I think that something like
Bitcoin is really important why because
it is not correlated to the rest of the
market and the biggest thing that
generally you do not believe that the
success of Bitcoin over the past several
years has been correlated to the market
I would say not directly correlated but
clearly so the idea that there's as much
liquidity and cash flow sloshing around
in the world has allowed people to buy
into Bitcoin in a way that they wouldn't
frankly if the different than being
correlated to a strong I've been in the
liquid I've been in the Bitcoin market
since 2012 and I feel like I'm in two
different universes I need a passport to
go between the Bitcoin world and my
regular world these are not the same
people and what I would tell you is the
people that own Bitcoin in 2012 all the
way up to now the majority of those
people view it as a hedge to the
traditional financial infrastructure
whether that's true or not is unclear
but that's how we've all viewed it
separately what Joe says is absolutely
right there's a big difference between
correlation and liquidity and the
reality is all of these financial assets
in the traditional markets are
fundamentally correlated we saw that in
2007 everything broke down things that
we thought were hedges went away and so
I think it's really important to not
forget what happened there
so in 2018 or 19 heaven forbid we go
through another cataclysmic financial
event we are going to see the same
fundamental correlation and so again I
ask why would it not make sense to have
a non correlated hedge for a small
amount here this is about buying
insurance it was the same reason why in
2007 and eight the folks that bought
simple simple insurance bought some CDs
buy gold I mean at least Gold's got a
three thousand year 10,000 year record
of being a store of value I mean I think
that's the other thing Buffett saying
there's no reason to think this is a
store that's a fair point but I think
these are not exclusive decisions and
you know for for this younger class of
entrant into the market they probably
don't want to buy gold in fact they
don't want to buy gold and they want to
buy something that's much more digital
and reflective of their value although
about the idea that the the Charlie sort
of suggested that there's something sort
of scummy about that or that there's a
lot of scum in the crypto world right
now and and that there's a lot of people
who have been sort of sucked into this
world that have bought into this world
by by supply some folks who may not be
as look I think it's really unfair to
not understand something and then to
disparage it again I think he's
exceptional I think Warren Buffett is
exceptional I think Bill Gates is
exceptional at what they do and I think
it's fair to say that in 30 or 40 years
if I'm you know
a vibrant successful investor and if I'm
back on this show the idea that I know
what's happening 30 or 40 years from now
as well as some other new 40 year old or
30 year old entrant into the market it's
just not true the reality is things
change tastes change behaviors change
but tomorrow I think you're I think
you're mistaking their underlying
concern with it they don't like gold
either Charlie Munger has said some
pretty dead-on things about what he
thinks about gold is putting it in your
portfolio this is not about
cryptocurrency and not understanding
that it's the way that they invest
looking at ads on productive versus
unproductive right this is a very valid
argument and he started the meeting not
talking about cryptocurrencies but just
saying if you took ten thousand dollars
and put it and you would have put it in
you'd have fifty 1 million dollar bill
yeah 51 or 52 million dollars now versus
you know the ten thousand dollars that
you still have one percent do you think
he's right on Apple you've liked Apple
yeah you know Apple back and forth
though on Apple a but I think Apple is a
productive cash machine is it a font of
innovation it's unclear trending to
probably not and I think they would
agree with you on that and so okay he
said I'm a product somebody to go back
to the world that these guys are experts
in you know they're the same people that
say you know I want to buy sort of that
cigarette butt on the ground with two
puffs left right that's one of his
famous like well that's what Charlie
cured him of his habit of wanting to do
that when he was an early investor
they're famous buyers of value and
there's tremendous value at Apple
there's enormous cash flow in Apple sure
what I'm taking away from this is that
if all 500 S&P 500 companies are on
their heel because they they're gonna be
disrupted by engineers I mean should
anyone not be stem at this point what do
you tell your kids be with you I I
bought I mean should anyone take French
Renaissance poetry Wow I I'm gonna talk
to my kid they should but here's a
problem like look let's take one step
back for a second so your first comment
is so right on when you look at the half
life of an SP 500 company right meaning
the number of years you're in the S&P
500 before you get booted out it used to
be 50 years now it's barely 20 right by
2035 I think our projections are it'll
be less than a decade so what that means
is this disruption that's happening is
happening faster and
turn faster so today's stalwart
companies are tomorrow's dami marketing
or English or none of journal none of
that it's going to be relevant at all so
then you go back to well how do you
remake human capital in a world where
these jobs and these companies are
turning over look in my opinion I think
you need to be a little bit more
balanced right now we've force kids to
make decisions I'll give you an example
in my case I was a person that was
interested in lots of things in college
but unfortunately I was an electrical
engineering you know how many electives
I had in five years of college
unfortunate John say you're very
fortunate to be in that but it's but did
that means you have a horrible college
life you know not going out every night
yeah but my point is that I think it's a
different way to think yeah well now you
can go out every day thank you for you
to continue this conversation to clubs
that you own tomorrow thank you
you're the doorman or a basketball game
yeah or basketball get backyard guest
host
timotha probably Hypatia founder and CEO
social capital is also part of it or the
Golden State Warriors how many games do
you get to do at ten I would say that
seven years ago when we bought the team
it was 45 although this year one I've
missed all the playoffs because I've
been working yeah so it's been really
bad when's that you closed it out and
Steph Curry played more than he's played
and he's back totally at knees fine yeah
at this point so you start Monday Monday
in Houston also do you foresee a problem
with Houston no when what when do you
foresee a problem or Cleveland do you
know foresee problems ever yeah you're
going it's gonna be no problem easy so
to bring it back to what we were talking
about the entire sp500 being disrupted
you ever see live sports being disrupted
and I don't know how you disrupt block
sports when I so there when when there's
a five of us that came together the
principle ownership team too by the
Warriors my friends and my family office
were completely against it and they said
this makes no sense it's a vanity
investment and I said actually I think
about it completely the opposite way
which is so much of our time is in front
of a phone
we are no longer actually looking at
people and we don't have any connection
to the people around us and I thought if
things like Facebook and Google and
snapchat and all of these things get too
real scale which they have in the last
seven years the thing that we're all
going to actually want is the opposite
of that as well how do we get together
and I thought sports was going to be the
best thing so you know I looked at doing
other things as well I mean I tried I
dabbled in restaurants completely
unprofitable and not work I liked you
more because I thought it was an event
of the investment that you could do
because you can do it and now you're
telling me it was about money it deeply
just about money and about being in the
right place
be fair I also wanted to be a 34 year
old minority investor of a basket on
those chairs in those chairs that darn
the eight rows up then you didn't want
to be there watching right there so that
huh that wasn't that motivate I like
okay I'll take your tickets I mean if
you're if you're in the West Coast no I
really wanted to do it because I thought
that it made a lot of financial and so
content is not disruptive all then is
what you did there's certain types of
content so it'll never be disruptive I
don't think so not basketball and
football will but for a different reason
because of concussions Oh
I mean Palmer concussion if you if you
go in survey parents today across
America and compare that to 20 years ago
I bet you it's probably at least 50%
less the number of parents willing to
put their kids strapped them into a
helmet and say go ahead hit that other
kid in the head so it sport by sport
it's the you know baby a little
different view on the NFL do I love you
I assume I don't need to talk you just
tell them what my view can go then you
can go you tell me I think about guns
and everyone play football forever that
we're all wrong about not worried I'm
not worried about the NFL no I think
there will be people that that see
themselves as gladiators which they have
all along you get you know you do
everything you can technologically to
protect these guys with with I think
it's not going away
it's not going away but if you think
where's global growth it's not football
it's not baseball because the games are
tomatoes local here's the other problem
with baseball it's five hours or six who
has that amount of time the beautiful
thing about basketball is it's a
number of players right so you can
really build affinity to individual
personalities right no let's see this
right you're up close to them the game
is two and a half hours it's high pace
lots of scoring so in many ways it has
the best boundary conditions for
entertainment fun affinity brand I mean
I watch 24 hours of the master so Jamaa
so it's just that by the end pens and
then there are these handful of events
like the Masters which can be exciting
in moments did you see on Instagram Phil
Mickelson challenged Tiger Woods to a
high stakes golf match no I think there
are no words I think I think they're
playing it in at the players in a in a
group I think that they're together and
they haven't played much I mean I would
pay-per-view that I would pay for that
okay so we're not disrupting that and I
guess there's other live events that
music yeah and then so then you're
talking about the delivery of the pipes
get commoditize but content still so
with everything else changing content
still is i think original intent has
tremendous value so things like sports
which are also unique and highly
valuable have value because it's
universal its global and then at the
other end of the spectrum you know shows
that are now produced differently for
very specific affinities have value but
not nearly as much there's not going to
be the cultural Gestalt moving things
that we've had in the past right so if
you think of something even like Game of
Thrones it's still quite narrow now in
terms of its reach it's not as if it was
like friends even a decade ago where the
last episode of friends you'd have 70
million people or what have you watch it
that we are past that now
so you make a really interesting point
about how all of these companies in
Silicon Valley and actual access and
information directly with their
consumers for a Netflix does that
business model make sense where you've
got to spend 7 to 8 billion dollars
potentially more on new content every
time around so but I think that you're
going down what I think is the most
important discussion that is happening
in Silicon Valley which is what is the
right business model for the future and
I think companies like Netflix and
Spotify are showing us that having a
direct relationship with your customer
where your customer and your consumer
are the same is probably the best
long-term business model because
can be smarter about the content that
they do develop based on what you tell
them you like based on what you watch
yeah because I think that you have a
relationship with with those kinds of
companies where you understand the data
that's being collected it's then
purposefully coming back to your
question about though I'm sorry I'm not
Amazon but Netflix spending 78 billion
dollars a year yeah if we all looked
under the hood and really could see what
shows are working and what shows aren't
working and all of that do you that with
the same type of transparency that most
networks have yeah you think you would
say that they're spending the money
efficiently yeah you do
absence you don't think that it's
masking that the cost is masking
anything else no in fact I think what
you'd see is a couple things there are
probably three buckets of content that
they're creating one is to keep people
around right one is to acquire new
people in existing markets and then the
other one is to help them seed and
launch completely new markets entirely
and I think when you segregate that out
they all have different values to
Netflix and that's why you end up with
numbers that may not seem obvious on the
surface but underneath I bet you there's
a strong discipline in science around
how they do that capital allocation just
thinking about a world where I wake up
on Sunday and there's six soccer games
on that I'm gonna have to sit through
that's don't you're not doing me to that
tomorrow there will be there will be NFL
okay anyway Ramanath is here
can you imagine six no six three-hour
soccer games I mean I think OPP there
will be watch the same amount of
football you did five years ago
well not for that I have some different
reasons maybe I think the answer's no
but I'm still excited about it and also
World Series and playoffs that we're
every pitch in foul ball you almost have
out yeah I mean that can be great to
every sport can have it
no it's yeah Final Four how great is
that I don't know what to do with the
shot clock on on the NBA sometimes I
think it's too short because there's no
point there's no place anymore that just
runs like in college remember college
there's a conceptual point line could
you imagine if there is a four point a
beautiful
very bored now we're getting out of this
I'm sorry that's what we digress let's
get back to our guest host this morning
social capital founder and CEO tomas
paula Hypatia
he was an original member of Facebook's
management team in fact here's what he
said about social media and the Internet
the last time that he was on this set
you talked a little bit Jamaat about
some of the potential dangers of the
Internet writ large just talked about
how your own kids yeah you wouldn't
necessarily have them spending much time
on any screen yeah I mean like I think
the two things that are probably true
irrespective of whatever company is
successful at any point in time is that
it's easier than ever to confuse truth
and popularity and so just to us as a
population of people trying to be
informed it's harder than ever and then
the second thing is that we really have
to understand what relationships we have
with these companies particularly when
the things that we get from them are
free right for example if someone gave
you a car gave you a car and the
seatbelts and airbags didn't work what
would you do well you couldn't do much
because the car manufacturer would say
well what did you expect it was free so
I guess you're using that as a
description of what we should be
thinking from Facebook and every one of
these guys we have got an incredible
value we as consumers incredible value
for 20 years on the internet for free
and we're finally at a point now where
we have to start asking ourselves okay
should we be paying for some of these
things so that we actually have some
established expectations now that
doesn't take away the ethical
responsibility of every company to treat
us fairly but there's probably going to
be a basic set of expectations that
everybody lives by and then frankly by
having it more of a paid relationship do
you think you might pay for Facebook if
a version of it a version of it sure
with no sponsors or what how would you
well it for me again for me specifically
what would I be paying for I would be
paying for assurances around my data and
privacy around how I was targeted in
tracked and and you know Facebook Google
etc that would be a relationship that I
personally as a consumer would want I
think the bigger issue comes when there
were things that were now are now being
revealed about Facebook not knowing what
was happening with some of that data let
alone the users knowing what was
happening with their data and and you're
right you should have an expectation
that some things for sale if
if you're getting these services for
free but all of these things have led to
the point where regulators are
potentially going to be getting involved
in fact the European regulators are
getting involved this month the question
is what will the u.s. do will it follow
suit and what what will that mean for
business models I think I think business
models are going to change I think that
valuations are going to change I think
that these companies will get re rated
why because two things are going to
happen in my opinion if I had to
forecast the next four or five years we
have European regulations as you said
around data privacy other countries will
copy it then we will realize that there
insufficient or that they were not
complete or well-thought-out
that's a hundred percent guaranteed and
then those will slowly change and what
that will do is restrict many companies
internet companies from gathering data
period so that's one set of things that
probably will happen over three or four
years then the other big thing that will
happen is again because this is not a
direct relationship between these
companies and us as customers because
the real customers are the advertisers
that pay there's going to be a system in
my opinion that it's equivalent to in
the financial sector what's called kyc
or know your customer right so today I
can go to any internet site I want use a
credit card and I could spend millions
of dollars to amplify anything I want
that's probably a world that has limited
days and in that world I suspect what
governments will say is if you intend to
run advertising in my country you have
to start small identify who you are be
legitimized be validated and then you
can slowly grow what that does is
dramatically slow the funnel of how
revenue accretes to these businesses
quick investment question for you honor
if you saw this tweet this Jeffrey gun
lack we were at sewn together and he had
a tweet I was when did you clarify this
first he says guy on stage after me and
I think that was you at sown on the
second day told me he's short Facebook
since January then on TV
he said he disagrees with the short call
both can't be true
what I what I said to Jeff and what I
said on television is you cannot short
Facebook based on marks testimony and a
correlation to oil that to me does not
make any sense
and what I said on television was if
you're going to short that business you
have to take a step back and ask these
other more fundamental questions about
business model are you short Facebook I
was not short Facebook so he was wrong
in his tweet when he said that the guy
said he was short Facebook in January if
he was again we should not talk about
the past but I was I'm not sure Facebook
my fund is not short Facebook we we
believe in the company but there was a
time where you might have been short
Facebook no and we don't and again it's
not it's not good to sort of bring up
the past but now talking about that
though what the case that you just laid
out yeah is that you do think a lot of
these companies valuations will come
down if they can no longer aggregate
advertising dollars the same way so
there's a reassessment yeah so look at
it in a different way look at Apple
right look at the multiple and Apple
even though now it's approaching a
trillion dollar market cap it used to be
a business that traded at 30 or 40 times
that the day trades at sell are eight
times or whatever at this so you've had
multiple compression and I suspect that
these bigger companies will have that
same kind of re rating but the drivers
of it won't necessarily be scale I
suspect will be some from the regulation
both wanna thank you so much for being
with us today oh it's always awesome to
see
hey there thanks for checking out CNBC
on YouTube be sure to subscribe to stay
up-to-date on all of the day's biggest
stories you can also click on any of the
videos around me to watch the latest
from CNBC thanks for watching